this is a sirs Helios 300 for 2019 and
it's a fantastic gaming laptop now if
you've seen my channel before you may
have noticed that I'm sometimes critical
of Asus products they make some good
stuff but they also make some kind of
mediocre stuff for the greater part of
my channels kind of a store coverage I
would say that I'm leaning more towards
the not recommending a lot of acer's
products but this one is a banger and
it's fantastic okay
so what makes this thing special is not
just this price point it's a $1200
machine but it's also what you're
getting for that money it's so much
better than I thought it would be
because so many companies cut corners
when they're in this price range so this
device has a aluminum top surface and an
aluminum keyboard deck the bottom panel
as well as the back panel is plastic but
this thing is just built really well for
this kind of price point
now they've configured this device with
a good combination of CPU and GPU so
often times when you have a $1200 gaming
laptop one of the things that they'll do
to keep costs down is to package it with
a weaker CPU even acer has done it in
the past but with this thing you're
getting a six core ninth gen i7 it's a
very powerful CPU I did notice however
that it is also under volted I noticed
this like previously in a different
laptop the razor blade but it's just
strange like this was never done before
in the past and someone decided to you
know give people the green light and now
a lot of manufacturers are putting out
devices that are under voltage right out
of the factory it's a good thing and
it's one of the reasons why the
temperatures on this device are lower
but it's just a little strange to me and
the GPU in here is also a pretty
kick-ass it's the gtx 1660 TI and
basically any kind of game that you
throw on this is going to run quite well
if you're playing competitive shooters
and you drop the graphics settings on it
you'll be able to hit the maximum frame
rate on the screen so the screen is 144
Hertz they claim it's a three
millisecond response time which is
probably an optimistic measurement but
it's a very fast screen if you're used
to sixty Hertz screens this 144 Hertz
panel is a nice treat
it's reasonably bright but screens are
areas where companies often skimp on as
well when they're trying to keep cost
down but it's like the thing that you're
looking at right it's a thing that
you're playing your games on I feel like
if you're not getting a good screen
regardless of the price of the laptop
not getting a proper device for 1,200
bucks a good screen like this is really
nice let's talk about thermal
performance this machine has fantastic
thermals in part due to the undervotes
thing that I mentioned earlier but it
also has a great thermal system it's got
two fans and the thermals are good
enough that it can maintain boost clock
if you're running it on turbo mode now
keep in mind that the fans are quite
loud in turbo mode but you get excellent
performance I do wish that there was
just better control than that software
like you get some degree of fan control
but I feel like there should be more
profile so you could adjust your fans a
little bit more precisely the ports on
this device so there's two UPA's one USB
see the USB C does not support
Thunderbolt 3 but I feel like in 2019
I've kind of fallen out of love with
what Thunderbolt 3 kind of offered
originally I really liked the idea of
fundable 3 the with the ability to
connect to external GPUs and stuff but
we've seen how that stuff plays out I
feel like it's just super expensive and
not cost sufficient to get an external
GPU
you also get an Ethernet jack as well as
your AC adapter hole on the left side I
don't like the positioning of this it's
not so much like a restricted airflow
when you have the AC adapter connected
it's more that the cable gets super hot
and that can't be great for things the
speakers are located on the bottom they
sound ok I don't particularly love them
but inside you also have access to your
RAM slots your SSD slots as well as your
2 and a half inch SATA Drive if you want
to use that and you also have access to
your Wi-Fi card as well as a very small
battery this is a little bit bigger
battery than the last year's version but
it's still a very short battery life I'm
getting around 4 hours of battery life
still the AC adapter is not huge so if
you do need to bring this around it's a
relatively compact power supply but yeah
it's a the battery life that you will
require the AC adapter if you travel
with it ok oh the inside I've talked
about the keyboard and trackpad yet it's
a good keyboard I like the way types I
think a lot of people enjoy the feel of
this keyboard it feels it's not that
it's cramped it's like there's no border
on the left and right of it because they
have a number pad so it feels a little
bit strange when you're using the WASD
Keys like you can feel the left edge of
the keyboard right there but it's
something to get used to pretty quickly
and the keyboard in the hole is
the backlighting on the sink so the unit
I have is an Amazon configuration it
does not have RGB lighting it only has
this whitish blue light which I actually
like there are more expensive
configurations out there with RGB
lighting but this is just a simple white
light the trackpad it's a plastic
surface and you do have to press the
buttons a little bit harder than I'd
like to activate the mechanism but yeah
it's a solid trackpad using Windows
precision drivers nothing really to
complain about it ok this device I'm
going to give this thing the title of an
MVP it's like the most valuable player
when it comes to gaming laptops right
now because not only is it giving
consumers a great device for the money
for $1,200 you're getting a lot more
with this system than a lot of competing
systems but the presence of this thing
the existence of a $1,200 device that is
this good puts a lot of pressure on
other companies out there I'm not going
to name names but there are companies
out there that probably looked at this
thing and just they hate it they're like
we can't compete with this thing with
our current devices so it makes other
companies look bad if they're selling a
similar kind of product for a lot more
money Acer did a great job in this thing
I mean it's heavily improved
year-on-year and I think they just
knocked this one out of the park I like
it now I'm gonna mention one problem
with this device or one potential
problem of this device that I think
people should be aware of when I looked
at the price of this device online on
Amazon I stumbled upon the older Helios
300 from 2018 and that was a device that
I reviewed quite positively when I
looked at the ratings it's got a four
star rating people seem to like it as
well but when you click on the spread
you'll notice a handful of one-star
reviews and I clicked on those and I saw
a bunch of people talking about thermal
issues from the 2018 model and I
remember in my older review that it had
good thermal performance not perfect but
it was pretty solid and I remember a lot
of other publications and other
youtubers came to a similar conclusion
that the 2018
Helios 300 had good thermals but then
why did so many of these one-star
reviews specifically mentioned poor
thermal performance as the reason for
their dissatisfaction with the product
and I think it was because of a
inconsistency in
Manufacturing I think a lot of the older
Helios 300s just didn't have proper
thermals but I think with the 2019 model
because of the undervolt and just it's a
improved system overall I think there's
many way less issues with 2019 model but
if you do pick one up and like I still
highly recommend this device but if you
pick one up I would recommend just
testing the crap out of it the moment
you get it just to make sure you don't
have a lemon because you don't want to
be one of those guys dropping one star
reviews when you can resolve it or avoid
it by running some benchmarks the day
that you actually get the laptop okay
Acer is Helios 300 great device I feel
like they knock this one out of the park
there is very little I have to complain
about it in fact I think because of the
existence of this product a lot of
competitors now have to kind of change
their configurations or reprice their
products at this $1200 price point
because it's that good yep okay if
you're looking for this thing you're
looking for a $1200 gaming laptop this
should be on the shortlist okay hope you
guys enjoyed this video thumbs if you
liked it
subs if you'd love to see you guys next
time